---
layout: page
title: The End of an Era
permalink: /stories/the_end_of_an_era/
---

The end of an era does not always occur immediately, as it did with the world wars. When one of those figures on TV shows and in movies — whom you have briefly encountered, or whom you have considered to be unreachable and permanent — passes, that is not the end of an era. They could be some comedian who, while silly in appearance, contributed to a momentary joy of your childhood. Life goes on. While hearing of their passing invokes a moment of nostalgia, you can always revisit one of their productions. They could also be one of those whose commentary in the digital newspaper sometimes caught your eye. They write about insignificant things, like good food really — one of those blogs that you would occasionally skip over. To you, perhaps the significance of their passing is much like those blogs. They could be one of those old actors or actresses on TV playing a role in a soap opera, often a family member or a cleaner, back in the day. They are not that important, since you most certainly never saw them at any award ceremonies. Hearing of their passing, you may remotely feel a sense of loss — the loss of a family member who always appeared on TV. But soon, you move on to your rather involved schedule.

Around the same time, you start to hear about the final production of an anime series that you used to watch during lunch or dinner. These are somewhat more resonating, since they were hot topics during your middle school years. You are very excited; after all, these are the kind of storytelling that you find most attractive and relatable, compared to today's diverse but short-lived explosion of low-quality anime productions. But then, you hear about the final production of just another series, and another, after all those years during which they had paused the productions. When you start watching those final series or movies, the style has all been upgraded. The circles are more circular, the greens greener, and the lines more refined, but you are slightly disappointed. Everything has become more precisely calculated, but the familiar imperfection has passed. It is capitalism trying to make a profit off your past, you tell yourself.

One by one, those little styles — be it lifestyle, writing style, cartoon style, acting style, teaching style, or ruling style — have passed away. Those nine years that you have lived in, that not only you have lived in, have passed away. Then you realise: the end of an era does not end like a movie or a funeral. It is not a show that you can purchase your way through, a video to be replayed, nor a ceremony to be attended. Somehow, it has finally ended. An era is an ocean in droplets of rain. To fall from the sky and finally evaporate on the ground, a drop takes merely a few minutes. Each seems insignificant, but each carries its memory of the ocean to which it once belonged. Before you realise it, it too carries the last bit of a tear into the soil. You gaze at the purple dust of twilight time, at the end of an era.